♪ [music] ♪
Next up, we need to work on reviews.
Reviews are going to be actually powering
quite a bit of our website. First of all,
when you're viewing a storeCard,
it will tell you how many reviews that
actual place has. You can click through to
it, and you can see that there is a number
of reviews for each of the stores,
the different people who have left those
reviews. You can also see when they have
left the review. Then, finally, when you
are logged in, you can leave a review
yourself, as well as leave a number of
stars. So that's what we're going to be
going for here. It's also going to be
powering our top layout,
which will give us the average rating of
reviews, and we're going to rank them
based on that. So let's go over to our
models here. If you're feeling fairly
comfortable with this sort of thing, maybe
we can take a pause and try to do this
yourself. Otherwise, gear up for the ride,
because here we go.
We're going into our models here, and
we're going to make a new one called
"Review.js". We're going to do the same
thing we've been doing before.
We're going to import Mongoose. We're
going to set the promise to "global".
Then, we'll make our schema. Then, we will
export the model itself.
Good. So we're all set up with our model
here. The last thing we want to do is go
to our start.js and import our model here,
and we're ready to go.
So what are the different fields that we
need on our Review Schema?
Well, we need the following. We need to
create a date. We need an author.
We need a store for which that review was
being sent for. We need the text of the
review. We need a rating of the review,
and that's all that we actually need.
So created is going to be a date. So let's
open that one right up.
We'll say type is a "Date", and the
default is going to be "Date.now".
Then, the author is going to be a type
of... Well, this one can be a
relationship, because you need one of your
existing users to be the author.
So it's going to be "mongoose. Schema.
ObjectID". The ref is going to be our user
model. Right? Because it's going to
reference another document in our
database. Then, "required" is going to say
something like, "You must supply an
author!" Now, our store is going to be
very similar to that. We are going to have
a type of the object ID. The reference is
going to be our store model,
and the required is, "You must supply a
store!" The text is simply going to be a
string and it required, "Your review must
have text!" Then, finally,
our rating is going to be a type of
"Number" and it's going to have a min of
one and a max of five. So that will give
us the values that we need there.
If someone tries to submit something on
either end of that, it will error out for
us. Now, what we need to do is to create
the interface for actually submitting a
review. So we're going to be doing that on
one of our single store pages.
So that would be on our Store.pug. That
would be down here. Now,
I don't want to do just the review code
right inside of here. We're going to do
that inside of a mixin. So we'll open up
our sidebar here. We'll go into our views,
go into our mixins
folder, and we'll make an
"_reviewForm.pug", and we'll make our
mixin called "reviewForm".
That takes in a store, and from that we
are going to return a form tag,
which has an action of, we'll need some
backticks here, "/reviews/".
We'll put the store ID in the action URL
route no problem. So "store_id".
The method will be "POST", and we'll give
it a class of "reviewer".
Inside of that, we need a text area with
the name of "text", because that's going
to line up with the field that we have
here. Then, we need a placeholder,
and that will be set to, "Did you try this
place? Have something to say?
Leave a review..." Then, we need the
review meta. Well, actually,
let's just get that going for a sec, so we
can actually see what that will look like.
So we'll go back into our Store.pug. We'll
go above our "block content" and we'll
include our actual mixin. So
"mixins/_reviewForm". Then, down here we
can say we want to make sure that they are
logged in. So "if user",
then if that is true, we'll just use our
"reviewForm" and we'll pass it the store.
Right? Because we have the "store"
variable, it's already available to us,
if we pass it to the store, it should be
able to accept that data.
Now, if I refresh this page layout now,
oh, no. We get an error.
Let's see what we did here. It's telling
us that there is no re-...
"Oh, you have to learn how to spell before
you do this stuff. "reviewForm",
there we go. Let's see now. Now, I'm not
seeing anything, because I'm not logged
in. So I'll log in real quick and now I'm
seeing the, "Did you try this place?
Have something to say? Leave a review..."
So that's our text area.
Then, we can go back to our review form
here and just [continue] on with what we
have. Now, the HTML layout of this is
pretty important, because what I want to
have is this actual Stars layout, where
you hover over the stars and it will
correspond with an actual radio button
input. So as a sibling to text area,
we'll have a "reviewer__meta". Inside of
that, we'll have a "reviewer__stars".
Inside of that, we are going to do a loop
for one, two, three,
four, five, because we need five inputs
here that are going to be checkboxes.
However, I am going to do it backwards,
and I'll explain this in just a second.
So I'll say, "each num in", and we'll just
make an array here,
"5, 4, 3, 2, 1". Then, for each of those,
we need an input with the type of "radio"
button. We want a required attribute. The
idea of it is going to be,
backticks, "stars" and we'll put the "num"
in there. So stars 1,
stars 2, stars 3, etc. , etc. The name of
this is going to be "rating",
because this is going to be sent over to
our model, and that's what "rating" is
right here. The value of it is going to be
the "num". So if I give that a refresh
now, you're not going to see anything. If
I inspect it, you will see that it's
there. But I'm actually hiding it with
CSS. So crack that open.
Crack that open. You'll see here, "5, 4,
3, 2, 1", they are being displayed "none",
and that's because I don't actually want
the inputs themselves to show up.
But we are going to be using the labels to
show stars in place of these.
So we'll give it a label here, and it's
going to have a "for" attribute of
"`stars$`". The reason why I do that
is because if you want to be able to click
a label and select the input that's
associated with it, then you must make
sure that your "for" and your "id" are the
exact same thing. Then,
inside of that, we can use our "#
stars" just as a label that we have there.
So if I give that a refresh now, you'll
see that I've got this nifty little Stars
layout, that when I hover over top of it,
I'm able to click on it and select the
number of stars. It is backwards now.
However, that is going to all make sense
in just a second. Let's go back to a
sibling of ".reviewer__stars" and give
ourselves an input with a class of
"button", and that's going to be a type of
"submit", and a value equals "Submit
Review". So now, when I give that a
refresh, you see that these are side by
side. Now, when I hover over it,
you see that we actually highlight our
stars. It is still backwards,
and that is because this should be "star"
singular, not "stars".
Refresh that. If you look at
"reviewer.scss", what we're doing is we're
doing Flexbox to reorder them. So 5 is
Order 5, 4 is 4, 3 is 3,
2 is 2, 1 is 1. The reason why we're doing
that is because when something is
selected, or when something is hovered,
the labels that are in the future of them
will be turned into yellow. So that's a
little CSS hack that you can use,
is if you do them in the opposite way, and
then reorder them either with floats or
with Flexbox, you can do this little trick
where you can have this highlighted,
and you can just select all the stores
that are in the future.
So you can see here, if I highlight over
the last one, it's one.
But really, the last one is the first one,
because I have reordered them in my CSS.
So a little bit confusing there. But if
you want to dive a little bit more into
CSS and see that little trick that we did,
the big thing here is that these are now
just selecting the associated radio input
for us. That means when we submit this
form, we're going to get the value of the
actual input here. So we have this thing,
and if I were to say, "Pretty good," and
submit that review, we get a 404,
because we do not have a route handler for
"reviews/" the ID. So let's do that now.
Open up our index.js. Go down to the
bottom here, right above our API and we'll
say, "router.post(`/reviews/:id`, )". When
that happens, we are going to first make
sure that they are logged in. So we'll
say, "authController.isLoggedIn",
because we want to make sure that they're
actually a user before they post data
here. Then, second, we want to catch
errors, and we're going to use a new
controller that we're going to make called
"reviewController" and the method is going
to be called "addReview". Good. So we make
sure they're logged in,
and of course we can write this on its own
line if this is getting a little bit hairy
for you to read. Then, we have
"catchErrors" on the next line and put
that there. Good. Now, you can see my
editor is yelling at me,
"Review Controller is not to find." Let's
go to the top, and let's import our Review
controller. So we can just duplicate the
auth. Select your word "auth" and replace
it with "review". Then, let's make that
controller and grab in Mongoose,
reference our review model, and then start
to add that handler,
"exports.addReview =". It's an async. We
have a request and we have a response,
and from that we need a couple things. So
first of all, we're going to get this big
payload where we have a couple of
different fields that are coming in.
We have our text field and we have our
review field that are coming in.
So let's just try to immediately
"res.json" the "req.body" just to see what
sort of data we're getting in. So I am
going to have three stars,
say "P good", submit that review. It
broke. Let me see what's going on here.
I've got a crash, "required", require
"Mongoose". If I go back to my Olive Oil
store, I'll say it's "P good", give me
three stars, submit that review.
Then, you can see, if we're sending back
the data that we're getting in the body,
we have a text and a rating. Those two
other pieces of data that we need before
that is the author and the store. So what
we'll do is we'll say,
"req.body.author =" "req.user. _id". So
far, so good. Let's refresh this,
and you see that the author ID is coming
along, because I'm signed in.
That's my ID. Then, I'm going to duplicate
that and say the "req.body.store = req.".
Now, where is the store ID? It's in the
URL here. Right? "Req.params.id",
so that's the ID that's coming in from the
URL, and this is the ID that's coming in
from the currently logged in user. Give
that a save, and if I resubmit that form,
then I'll see that I'm getting a text, the
rating, the author,
and the store values coming in no problem.
Good. So we can get rid of that "res.json"
and we can start to save our new review.
So let's make a variable,
"newReview", and that's equal to a "new
Review" model. We simply just need to pass
it the "req.body", because that is going
to have the text, the rating,
the author, and the store on it. Then, we
can await the "newReview.save".
Once that has saved, we will redirect them
back to the page where they came from.
At this point, we can also tell them that
their review was successfully saved.
So we can say, "req.flash(`success`,
`Review Saved!`)". Good. So when somebody
posts this URL, we're going to save the
author and the store. We're going to take
the existing text and rating that they've
passed us, and then we are going to save
it into our review, and then redirect them
back to the page. So let's go back to our
homepage here. Let's go to one of our
stores here. I'm going to go to Randy's
Joint and I'm going to say, "This place
rocks!", give that a five-star review,
and then submit it. It says, "Review
saved!" and redirects us right back to
Randy's Joint. Now, it's not showing up,
but if we open our MongoDB Compass here
and we go back to our schema, and apply,
it should be showing up in the sidebar
here. I am not seeing it. But if we give
it a refresh, I just did a CMD+R and let
it reconnect, there we go. Our reviews are
now popping up. There is one review.
I can open that up. I can look at my
documents here and say, "This place
rocks!" The rating is five. The author is
an object ID, and the store is also an
object ID. So both of those pieces of data
are associated with the actual store.
Now comes the question of how do we
actually pull in a list of reviews for
this specific store. That's what we'll be
doing in the next video.
♪ [music] ♪